NOTE: This assignment was never completed due to changes in the course.

Assignment 5 - Alternative to the Final Exam
-------------------------------------------
Due. March 27, 2020

This assignment can be chosen instead of writing the final exam.
As the exam is worth twice as much as a regular assignment so this
assignment is approximately twice as large as a regular assignment.

This assignment is optional. You can choose to write the assignment or
write the final exam. You can only choose one of these options (you can't
try both and pick the better one). If you wish to code this assignment
instead of the exam then send me an email (dcalvert@uoguelph.ca) and let
me know about it. If you start working on this assignment and then decide you
would rather write the exam then don't submit the assignment and just write
the exam instead. There is no penalty for changing your mind.
This is a demanding assignment and the final exam may be easier.

The assignment builds on assignment 4 and adds more game functionality.


1. Creating New Vehicles
------------------------
Add two new vehicles, the tank and helicopter, to the game.

The tank starts near the player's base. Unless it is given a destination, it will
move randomly around the world and shoot at the other players vehicles, towers, and
cube of meteors.

The helicopter is created and moves like the tank but it can fly above the ground.
Pick a reasonable elevation for the helicopter to fly.

The cost to build vehicles and tower, and the range they can shoot other objects,
and the number of times they can be shot before being destroyed  is:

            Cost  Range  Health
Tower        2     10     3
Truck        1     0      2
Tanks        3     10     4
Helicopter   2     15     1

The tower, tank, and helicopter all shoot at enemies that are within range.
They will shoot at other towers, trucks, tanks, helicopters, and at the
opponents cube of meteors. Use the sphere to represent a shot. Shooting a
vehicle reduces the vehicles health by one. Shooting the opponents cube removes
a meteor. If the AI opponent shoots the player's cube then the number of
meteors displayed in 2D and 3D should be reduced and displayed correctly.

Create shapes for the new vehicles so they look interesting. They should be more
complex than a single cube.


2. Controlling Vehicles
----------------------
The player should be able to select a vehicle using the keyboard. They can
press the less than < and greater than > keys to cycle through all of their
vehicles. When a vehicle is selected it should be displayed differently. Either
draw it using different colours or draw a marker above it. Using the < > keys
the player should be able to move the marker through all of the trucks, tanks, and
helicopters they currently have in the game. It does not matter which order the
vehicles are selected as long as the player can move through all of their
vehicles using the < and > keys to move forward and backwards through the list. 

Once a vehicle is selected the player can select a new location for the vehicle
to move towards. This should replace the random location that the vehicle is currently
moving towards. Use the mouse to select the new destination for the vehicle.
Selecting the new destination for a vehicle should work the same way as selecting
a location for a tower in assignment 4. The player should press the / key to indicate
they want to identify the destination for the selected vehicle, move the mouse to
find the location, and press the p key again to select the destination point.
Helicopters will fly above this location.


3. Opponent AI
--------------
The opponent should be able to create the new vehicles. Again, they should have
a strategy using all of the vehicles in the game. It doesn't need to be
very smart but they should create the vehicles. Describe the strategy in the
readme.txt file.

4. Pause the Game
-----------------
The player should be able to press the p key to pause and unpause the game.
Vehicles should stop moving and shooting when the game is paused.

5. Player Shooting Cost
-----------------------
If the player shoots using the space bar they can damage a vehicle. The
cost in meteors for the player to shoot is 3.


Coding Practices
----------------
Write the code using standard stylistic practices. Use functions, 
reasonable variable names, and consistent indentation.
If the code is difficult for the TA to understand then you
will lose marks.

As usual, keep backups of your work using source control software.


Starting Code
-------------
The starting code is available on the Courselink site.
You can untar the file using tar xf filename.


Submitting the Assignment
-------------------------
NOTE: The assignment executable is named a1. Other files can be
named with any reasonable filenames.

Submit the assignment using Courselink. Submit the files needed to
build and run your program. Do not submit compiled code. Bundle the code in a tar file.

Include a makefile that will compile the executable. Name the executable a1.
 
The TA will unpack your code and type "make". They will then try to
run an executable named "./a1".  If the make command or executing a1
does not work then you will lose a substantial number of marks.

It is always a good idea to unpack and test the file you are submitting
to be sure that what you submit actually compiles and runs. 



